# Solarwinds Hack: The 2020 United States federal government data breach
In this document, I discuss two articles about malware snuck into Orion, software made by the company SolarWinds and used to infiltrate key federal agencies and powerful tech companies starting from as early as March 2020. I present and discuss two opposing views on this important matter.

## Article 1
In The Guardian's [What we know – and still don’t – about the worst-ever US government cyber-attack](https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2020/dec/18/orion-hack-solarwinds-explainer-us-government), the author opens with an overview of how Donald Trump, Joe Biden, and prominent members of Congress have responded, emphasizing the lack of knowledge and ongoing investigation. Thomas Rid, a cyber-conflict expert, states that hackers likely harvested such a vast quantity of data that "they themselves most likely don't know yet" what useful information they've stolen. In discussing how to fix the networks that have been compromised, experts say that entirely new networks need to be built and isolated from the compromised ones.

The author in particular criticizes the inaction of Trump, his dismissal of the seriousness of the attack, and his contradictory statements that unfoundedly suggest China's involvement in the matter. Including perspectives of cybersecurity experts, the article points to the federal government's out-of-date cybersecurity practices and Trump's removal of the White House cybersecurity coordinator and state department cybersecurity policy chief. 

## Article 2
Contrary to the claims made in The Guardian's piece on the issue, The Federalist's [The Latest Cyber Attack Exposed What A Dangerous Mess DOE Is](https://thefederalist.com/2020/12/22/the-latest-cyber-attack-exposed-what-a-dangerous-mess-doe-is/) focuses on the shortcomings of the Department of Energy, criticizing it for its "bureaucratic sprawl". It outlines how the establishment of the DOE's Office of Cybersecurity, Energy Security, and Emergency Response in 2018 only added to a poorly managed system, using this backdrop as a way to paint the Trump administration's actions regarding this issue in a positive light. The author writes, "Laudable efforts by the Trump administration to tighten issues concerning foreign nationals have met resistance". Whereas The Guardian focuses in on the shortcomings of government cybersecurity, The Federalist emphasizes the role of foreign relations and government disorganization.

In discussing the internal issues of the department, the author cites the fact that the National Laboratories are all government-owned, but all but one are contractor-operated. Although The Guardian also partly attributes out-of-date cybersecurity practices to the success of the data breach, The Federalist uses more inflammatory language, claiming the Department of Energy's "antiquated IT systems are an open joke". The article concludes not by offering information on steps to move forward, but instead further shifting the blame onto the Department of Energy itself.